otelcol.exporter.logging (#3497)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/otelcol.exporter.logging.md

> ---

Reviewer: Can you also update the CHANGELOG?

Author: only if I push my latest commit! woops

title: otelcol.exporter.logging
---

# otelcol.exporter.logging

`otelcol.exporter.logging` accepts telemetry data from other `otelcol` components

> and writes them to the console via Zap.

Reviewer: Zap feels like an implementation detail, I'd take it out:

```suggestion
and writes them to the console.
```

This component writes logs at the info level. The [logging config block][] must be
configured to write logs at the info level.

> **NOTE**: `otelcol.exporter.logging` is a wrapper over the upstream
> OpenTelemetry Collector `logging` exporter. Bug reports or feature requests will
> be redirected to the upstream repository, if necessary.

Multiple `otelcol.exporter.logging` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

[logging config block]: {{< relref "../config-blocks/logging.md" >}}

## Usage

```river
otelcol.exporter.logging "LABEL" { }
```

## Arguments

`otelcol.exporter.logging` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `verbosity`           | `string` | The verbosity of the logging export (detailed|normal|basic). | `"normal"` | no
> `sampling_initial`    | `int`    | Number of messages initially logged each second. | `2` | no
> `sampling_thereafter` | `int`    | Sampling rate after the initial messages are logged. | `500` | no

Reviewer: I'd suggest moving supported values outside of the table:

```suggestion
`verbosity`           | `string` | Verbosity of the generated logs. | `"normal"` | no
`sampling_initial`    | `int`    | Number of messages initially logged each second. | `2` | no
`sampling_thereafter` | `int`    | Sampling rate after the initial messages are logged. | `500` | no

The `verbosity` argument must be one of `"basic"`, `"normal"`, or `"detailed"`. 
```

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------
`input` | `otelcol.Consumer` | A value that other components can use to send telemetry data to.

`input` accepts `otelcol.Consumer` data for any telemetry signal (metrics,
logs, or traces).

## Component health

`otelcol.exporter.logging` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`otelcol.exporter.logging` does not expose any component-specific debug
information.

## Example

> This example creates an exporter to write traces directly to the console:

Reviewer: Can you have this be a slightly more complete pipeline, with a receiver sending data to the exporter?

Author: This has been replaced with a prometheus.exporter.unix scrape example

```river
tracing {
	sampling_fraction = 1
	write_to          = [otelcol.exporter.logging.default.input]

> }

Reviewer: I'd suggest not using this in the example since you can only have one tracing block per config, making this hard to use as a copy/paste example.
